The top 15 Features of Python are as follows:

1. Easy to Write
These days with the increasing number of libraries in the languages, most of the time of developer goes in remembering
them. This is one of the great features of python as python libraries use simple English phrases as it’s keywords.
Thus it’s very easy to write code in python. For e.g.:-

Writing code for function doesn’t use curly braces to delimit blocks of code. One can indent code under a function,
loop, or class.

def fun()
print("Hi, i am inside fun");//this line    comes under function block as it is indented.
print("Hi ,i am outside  fun");//This line will be printed when control comes out of the function block.

2. Easy to Understand
This is the most powerful feature of the python language, which makes it everyone’s choice. As the keyword used
here are simple English phrases; thus, it is very easy to understand.

3. Object-Oriented
Python has all features of an object-oriented language such as inheritance, method overriding, objects, etc.
Thus it supports all the paradigms and has corresponding functions in their libraries. It also supports the
implementation of multiple inheritances, unlike java.

4. Robust Standard Libraries
The libraries of python are very vast that include various modules and functions that support various operations
working in various data types such as regular expressions etc.

 Popular Course in this category
Python Training Program (36 Courses, 13+ Projects)
36 Online Courses | 13 Hands-on Projects | 189+ Hours | Verifiable Certificate of Completion | Lifetime Access
4.8 (8,933 ratings)Course Price
₹7999 ₹41999
View Course
Related Courses
Programming Languages Training (41 Courses, 13+ Projects, 4 Quizzes)Angular JS Training Program (9 Courses, 7 Projects)
5. Supports Various Programming Paradigms
With support to all the features of an object-oriented language, Python also supports the procedure-oriented paradigm.
It supports multiple inheritances as well. This is all possible due to its large and robust libraries that contain
functions for everything.

6. Support for Interactive Mode
Python also has support for working in interactive mode where one can easily debug the code and unit test it lines by
line. This helps to reduce errors as much as possible.

7. Automatic Garbage Collection
Python also initiates automatic garbage collection for great memory and performance management. Due to this, memory can
be utilized to its maximum, thus making the application more robust.

8. Dynamically Typed and Type Checking
This is one of the great feature of python that one need not declare the data type of a variable before using it. Once
the value is assigned to a variable, its datatype gets defined. Thus, type checking in python is done at a run time,
unlike other programming languages.

For e.g.-

v=7;// here type or variable v is treated as an integer
v="great";//here type of the variable v is treated as a string

9. Databases
The database of an application is one of the crucial parts that also need to be supported by the corresponding
programming language being used. Python supports all the major databases that can be used in an application, such as
MYSQL, ORACLE, etc. Corresponding functions for their database operations have already been defined in python libraries.
one needs to include those files in code to use it.

10. GUI Programming
Python being a scripting language also supports many features and libraries that allow graphical development of the
applications. In the vast libraries and functions, corresponding system calls and procedures are defined to call the
particular OS calls to develop an application’s perfect GUI. Python also needs a framework to be used to create such a
GUI. Examples of some of the frameworks are Django, Tkinter, etc.

11. Extensible
This feature makes use of other languages in python code possible. This means python code can be extended to other
languages as well; thus, it can easily be embedded in existing code to make it more robust and enhance its features.
Other languages can be used to compile our python code.

12. Portable
A programming language is portable if it allows us to code once and runs anywhere. This means the platform where it
has been coded and where it is going to run need not be the same. This feature allows one of the most valuable features
of object-oriented languages-reusability. As a developer, one needs to code the solution and generated its byte code
and need not worry about the environment where it will run. EO-one can run a code developed on the Windows operating
system on any other operating system Linux, Unix, etc.

13. Scalable
This Language helps develop various systems or applications capable of handling a dynamically increasing amount of work.
These types of applications help a lot in the organisation’s growth as they are strong enough to handle the changes
upto some extent.

14. Free and Open Source
Yes, u read it correctly u need not pay a single penny to use this language in your application. One needs just to
download it from its official website, and it’s all done to start. And as it is open-source, its source code has also
been made public. One can easily download it and use it as required as well as share it with others. Thus it gets
improved every day.

15. Integrated
Python can be easily integrated with other available programming languages such as C, C++, Java, etc. This allows
everyone to use it to enhance the functionality of existing applications and make them more robust.

Conclusion
Python is an advanced, high-level, robust, open-source, but easy to understand and code language that allows the
developer to concentrate on the solution rather than remembering a large number of keywords, as it uses simple and easy
to remember English phrases as its keywords.

Its robust library, support for different paradigms, and GUI programming feature and integrated feature make it the
most suitable language among others.