Introduction to Python -
Python is known as an interpreted scripting language. Gudo van Rossum designed it. It was released in the year 1991. The
different versions were released for Python like python 1, python 2 and python 3. It is one of the most used scripting
languages for automating the modules and tools, development of web applications, handling big data, complex
calculations, workflow creation, rapid prototyping, and other software development purposes.

Main Components/Highlights of Python
In the above section, we have studied about Introduction to Python, so now we are going ahead with the main components
of Python that are as explained below:

Platform independent
Python is platform-independent. The python code can be used for any operating system like Windows, Unix, Linux, and Mac.
There is no need to write different code for different OS.

Interpreted
The python code does not need to compile as required for other languages. Python code automatically converts the source
code into byte code internally, and the code is executed line by line, not at once, so it takes more time to execute the
code for the application.

Simple
The Python language is simple that can be easily coded and read. The syntax of python is really simple and can be
learned easily.

Robust
Python is robust

High-level language
It is a high-level language used for scripting. It means one does not need to remember the system architecture and no
need to manage the memory.

Rich library support
Python can be integrated with other libraries that help in making the functionality work for you. You do not need to
write the extra code for that.

Embeddable
Python source code can be put into a different language to use. This helps in integrating the functionality of the
python program with other languages.

Open-source
Python is open source and readily available over the internet anywhere. One does not need to take the license of it.
It can be easily downloaded and use.

Free of cost
It is free of cost. Programmers or Organization does not need to put the extra cost to use this and reduce the cost to
the user.

Concise and Compact
Python code is mainly concise and compact, which helps the programmers to understand it clearly.

Dynamically typed
It is dynamically typed, which means that the type of value will be decided at run time. This is the reason why the
programmers don’t declare the type of variable earlier.

Applications based on Python
As we have learned about python in the above topic of Introduction to python, So now we are going to Discuss some
applications based on python are:

Web applications
Web frameworks
Software development
Graphic user interface applications
Prototyping
Operating Systems
Applications (Business and Enterprise)

Advantages and Disadvantages of Python
As we have already learned about the Introduction to python, So let us know about the advantages and disadvantages of
python:

Advantages of Python
It is open-source and readily available to use.
It is easy to learn and explore.
Third-party modules can be easily integrated.
It is high level and object-oriented programming language
It is interactive and portable.
Applications can be run on any platform.
It is a dynamically typed language.
It has great online support and community forums.
It has a user-friendly data structure.
It has extensive support libraries.
It is interpreted language.
Python provides database connectivity.
It improves programmer productivity.

Disadvantages of Python
It cannot be used for mobile application development
It has limitations with database access.
It throws run time issues that cause the issue for the programmers.
It consumes more memory because of dynamically typed language.
Its speed is slow.
Need more maintenance of application and code.

Conclusion
Python is a widely used language for automation scripts as the scripting language. Each language has its own advantages
and disadvantages. Python is now the most popular language to use across the organization and programmers as well. It
supports cross-platform, and applications based on python language can be run on any platform without any issues.
For Python, Python 2 and Python 3 versions are more popular in the market to use. Python 3 has shown a great change in
the field of programming language for python. In this version, the functions become more simple, and new add-on things
got added that makes it compatible with lower versions and application for python.